Release procedure of jEdit

1. Define a set of requirements for the next stable release.

  Discuss and make a list of requirements. The results are put in a
  publicly visible file.
  (It maybe, TODO.txt in the repository, or a page in Wiki.)

  To keep often releases, as a good practice, the requirements must be
  readily achievable in some months. If it seems to take more than 3
  months, some requirements should be postponed. One major improvement
  is enough.

2. Work on the trunk, to achieve the listed but missing requirements.

  Minor improvements or features are also welcome even if they are not
  listed as requirements in step 1, unless it slows to achieve the
  requirements.

3. Make a release branch. (ex. "/branches/M.N.x")

  Anytime after this, the step 1 of the next release can be started.

4. Make a RC (release-candidate) from the branch. (ex. M.N-rc1)

  The release of RCs is announced on jedit-devel, jedit-users,
  jedit-announce, with a clear notice saying it is for testing.

5. Receive bugs for the RC, and fix them.

  The fixes first applied on the trunk, and proposed as candidates of
  merge into the release branch. A candidate can be a revision, a group
  of revisions, or another branch to refine the fix. The proposed fixes
  are listed in a publicly visible file, with some comments,
  justifications, and status of review.
  (It maybe, PROPOSED_FIXES.txt in the branch, or a page in Wiki.)

  The merge is done by another committer (reviewer) other than the
  original committer of the fix. The fix is accepted only if
    - the fix also works for the reviewer, and
    - the reviewer is sure that the fix doesn't include unwanted changes
  . If a fix was rejected, it can be proposed again with some
  refinements made on the trunk.

  This means each fix is reviewed at least two persons. This reduces
  possibility of unexpected breakages, and achieves the stability of the
  release branch.

  While this process, some RCs may be made for each two weeks or so.

6. If no major bugs are reported against the RC for the last period,
   release from the branch as a stable release. (ex. M.N.0)

7. After a stable release, bug fix continue as same as the step 5.
   If some fixes are merged from the trunk, make a patch release.
   (ex. M.N.1, M.N.2, ...)


Please send to jedit-devel@lists.sourceforge.net, if you find any issue
about this procedure.
